Welcome, in this video, we're going to integrate one of the branches into master.
I'm currently logged into GitHub, and I'm on the "website" Git repository,
and I'm currently in the master branch. Since we created two branches fairly recently,
the GitHub interface notices that we have recent branches,
and it lists those two branches above the rest of the contents for my repository.
This is such because a lot of the workflow that GitHub has
is around comparing and pull requests.
So, I'm going to follow that process with my first branch, which is example.
So, I'm going to click on "Compare & pull request".
Now, I could go into the "Pull requests" menu item over here,
and go through the same process, but if this button appears, this is the quickest way to do it.
By default, if there are no forks involved, which we will cover later,
GitHub will automatically do a compare and prepare for a pull request
based on the default branch, which in this case is master.
At the top, we have a commit message to go along with the pull request,
and a comment that we could start a conversation with.
Then, at the bottom, we have a diff that shows the differences between
where we're starting at, and were we're going to.
So, this is the difference between the Readme file for our current branch versus master.
We could change the view a bit by going from unified to split,
and then we can see the changes side by side.
We also see that we have one commit involved; one file changed;
there are no comments currently associated with them;
and the single contributor, which is myself.
I'm going to go up to the comment field, and the comment field
allows me to write in Markdown if I choose to do so.
It's not required, but it is nice to have that quasi rich text type field.
I have typed some text in here, into the comments field, that is in Markdown syntax.
Double hash is a level two heading.
This is regular text, with inline styling; so the double underscore is bolding.
If I wanted to use italics or just emphasis,
I could use either single underscores or just asterisks.
If I want to see what this looks like before I submit it, I can click on preview.
So, you can see that I have a level two heading, and the word please is bolded.
Once I'm happy with my comment, and the rest of the pull request,
I'm going to click on "Create pull request".
That lands me on the main pull request page for this particular pull request.
You can see that it has the heading that was the commit message for the pull request,
and, for this repository, it's actually the second pull request.
For public repos, anyone can submit a pull request;
however, only people that have access to commit to the repository
will have the ability to merge the pull request.
So, when I land on this, I see that I have a button that I can merge this pull request.
But, before we do, we can put on a different hat,
and say that I'm the lead developer of this repository
or, if you're the only person in the repository, then it doesn't matter;
you're wearing all the hats. You can see that I have the conversation,
which if you're working in a team environment would be a little bit more meaningful.
You have the commits listed that are involved with this pull request,
right now we only have a single commit involved,
but if I had more commits they would be listed here.
And then, files changed, I can see which files were changed, and what was changed.
I can come in here and actually leave comments at the line level,
which, for me, I'm just going to cancel for now.
And comments at the pull request level are basically part of the conversation.
You'll also notice that GitHub has the ability of using emoticons,
which are accessible by starting with a colon.
I'm going to choose "+1", and now I can preview.
You can see that I have my heading, and I have the thumbs up icon.
So, I'm going to click on comment, which adds my comment above.
If I click the other button, "Close pull request",
it would just close the pull request without merging.
Well, until this is merged in, the changes from the example branch
are not going to be on master.
Thankfully, the changes within this branch are compatible
with the base branch, which is master.
So, we get the green check mark, and the button, "Merge pull request", is active.
So, I'm going to go ahead and click "Merge pull request".
I'm given the opportunity to revise the commit message,
and now I'm going to click on "Confirm merge".
Great, the pull request was successfully merged and closed.
So, everything that is in example has been merged into master.
So, we can safely delete our branch, which we can do directly from the pull request page.
Now, the example branch has been deleted.
Alright, let's go check it out; let's click on the name of the repository,
that brings us back to the master branch.
At the top, we no longer have the example branch listed, and if we do the dropdown
for our branches, example branch is no longer listed here either.
Also, we have a commit message that says
"Merge pull request #2 from", our repository, slash, branch name.
Basically, that's the commit message that you get automatically when GitHub does the merge.
We can still review this since the "#2" is a hotlink directly to the pull request.
It has a status of merged, but we can always review this if we wanted to.
Let's return by clicking on the name of our repository, and let's double check our change.
Click on the "README.md" file, and now you can see the edit that was made
on the example branch and this edit is on the master branch.